= dm-fluiddb-adapter

This is a DataMapper adapter for FluidDB (http://www.fluidinfo.com)

It makes heavy use of memcache and uses Typhoeus to parallelize
fetching tag values. TyphoeusClient can also be used independently
to make low-level requests.

The connect url for the adapter is:

 fluiddb://test:test@sandbox.fluidinfo.com/test

That will connect to the sandbox instance of fluiddb as the test user
with test password and use the subnamespace "test".

It creates a namespace for each datamapper resource and a tag in that
namespace for each property. It creates a tag with the same name as
the namespace which it refers to as the 'identity tag' and tags all
the objects for that resoruce with it.

When you delete an object it removes the identity tag and adds a
'deleted' tag from the resource's namespace to the object. The
'deleted' tag is to help with garbage collection although garbage
collection is not implemented by the adapter. The reasoning is that
you may want to use custom tags for properties and use objects/tags
between multiple tables/views.

The about tag is not currently supported, but is on the short list for
features as is being able to customize or make optional the identity
tag and the corresponding 'identity query' which is the fluidb query
used to find the entire set of objects belonging to the datamapper
resource. 'Serial' properties are not supported and resources require
a column named 'id', type String, and marked with ':key => true'.

You can get access to the underlying http client for making direct requests
by calling:

 DataMapper.repository(:default).adapter.http

The advantage to using the adapter's http instance is that Typhoeus has 
to create a pool of handles to libCURL and it creates them on demand.
They are a little slow to start up, so it's better to use a warmed up
instance of the http client.


== TODO

* Add support for the 'about' fluiddb tag at creation.
* Enable setting and/or removing the identity tag and query.
* Add Set property type
* Add Tag property type
* Add range support for querying date attributes

== Copyright

Copyright (c) 2009 Jordan Curzon. See LICENSE for details.
